---
title: Study Abroad in Bangalore, India
layout: subcategory
---

Bollywood, chai, thali, dosas, vibrant colors, mini-showerheads-next-to-toilets-to-clean-bum (?!?), a cute tea place appropriately named Infini*tea*, 7 AM yoga, masala french fries, fresh papayas, chai, fruit-loving monkeys, daytime rickshaws, wild disco rickshaws, bum-tum talk (aka deep talk), mango lassi, make shift temples, ancient temples, bucket baths, chai, the indispensable good ole toilet paper, flashy Indian jewelry...I can go on about the things I came to *like* through this program. A longer and more important list would be one of the people that I got to meet and came to *love* and *respect*. 

We had the privilege of learning from the most passionate, compassionate, and humble activists. 

The Trinity of Knowledge, Bhargavi, Mr. Mallesh, and Leo, leading **[Environment Support Group](http://www.esgindia.org)**, taught us so much. Day one, we sang [Ekla Chalo Re](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yPqdIR_X1Vk) together and they taught us the lyrics and its meaning as well as its long history with activism. They were so patient as to teach us not only about their work but also it fits within the social and natural history of Bangalore. We took "development" out of its abstract bubble and objectified it. We were pushed to make development tangible: what does it feel like? look like? who wins? who loses? what are the politics of who defined and hyping the word?  who measures this magical index? and why is it such a buzzword nowadays? We also got to learn about street vending culture and economy and how it's evolving with globalization. As one of our many field trips, we went to a landfill that ESG helped closed down. This was a traumatizing experience, and the visit opened up conversations within our group about consumer culture and individual responsibilities to the environment. We also touched on farming history and how agriculture is evolving rapidly and the horrifying social consequences of "modernizing" agriculture. As one of our field trips, we got to visit spice and coffee farms in Mr. Mallesh's hometown near Mysore and his family was kind enough to open up their home for us (unfortunately I am sad to report that there were no sightings of wild elephants but we did see some fresh footprints in the mud). 

With the activists from **[Hengasara Hakkina Sangha (Women's Rights Organization)](http://www.hhsonline.org)**, we deconstructed gender norms and compared how it's constructed in America and in Bangalore (I'm afraid to make any kind of generalization because India is perhaps the most diverse country that I know of). We discussed how they manifest in the media (please take a break to watch this hilarious [ad](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vPayFrCOiZM)) and in homes and on the streets and really see how gender is socially constructed in the Bangalorean context, and how it disadvantages women. Through them and their work, we also got to meet the inspiring women at the Women's Federation and Garment Workers Union. The Women's Federation is leading a grassroots movement in outskirts of Bangalore that works to create a supportive social network for rural women to constructively address gender inequity. The Garment Workers Union came and talked to us about their work, their families, and the union's role in making sure that they have a more balanced work and family life. The LGBTQ rights activists at Lesbit and Payana were honest and opened up about their experiences as one of the more underground activism groups in the city. This was a tricky subject but we also discussed a bit about the caste system and how it's still relevant in modern Indian society with Sarawati Du, a writer and Dalit activist.

Not only that, we got to hear from local artists in Bangalore about how they use art to push people to think and talk about taboo issues. Lakshmi ma'am performed her radical and thought provoking one person play that reinterprets classic Hindu stories to challenges gender norms. We participated in Dr. Radha's Theater of the Oppressed workshop where we learned about how we can learn to be more thoughtful about our bodies through interactive theater as well as the history behind this type of theater. She also talked a bit about the work that she does as part of **[Center for Community Dialogue and Change](http://www.ccdc.in/theater-oppressed-medical-humanities)**. Arun (our tour guide that took us around the city the day after we arrived in Bangalore)'s tour was so well put together that it might as well be classified as art. He used work for tech companies in the U.S. and came back to Bangalore to give tours and share the city that he loves with others. Deepak Srinivasen is a neurobiologist turned actor. He uses the interactive aspect of theater to create a more engaging learning environment for his students.

As you can tell, my classmates and I learned about a diverse array of hefty subjects that carry a lot of weight. In order to make sense of and ground these heavy topics, we shared many personal stories and became vulnerable around each other to talk about sensitive and personal topics. We not only lived together, but also laughed together, giggled together, cried together, danced together, and sang together. Words cannot express the amount of love I have for this group of people. I've never lived anywhere for too long and made home a sense of belonging that I carry with me, but I feel so lucky to be able to say that I feel at home with my classmates. Whether we're on the floor of the cozy ESG office drinking chai and eating coconut biscuits, whether we're sitting around and eating dinner in Dr. Anu's home, or we're together at Chili's on the Ave to eat South Indian food, I feel at home. It's not often that you find a whole gaggle of people that are so generous, thoughtful, caring, and encouraging. And most importantly, I am forever indebted to Dr. Anu Taranath. She pushed us challenge our beliefs and to look at issues from unfamiliar angles, and always created a safe and generous space for us to develop our thoughts and ideas. 

To cherish the wonderful relationships that we've made through the program, we made a [baby](http://www.amazon.com/T-I-P-S-To-Study-Abroad-Engagement/dp/0989626334) together to take it to the next level. The whole program was nine months long and snippets of our trip are now out in the world in the form of a book! I have to thank the wonderful people at **[Flying Chickadee](http://www.flyingchickadee.com/zine.html)**. They edited our letters and helped us put this book together quickly and made zero cents.

I got to learn about an infinitesimally tiny fraction of Bangalore and of the work that these inspiring activists do on a daily basis. Even if I were a walking 5' 8" tall sponge, it wouldn't be enough to learn from these amazing people. Even though I was in Bangalore only for a month, I know that the thumbprints of the people I met through the program will be forever engraved in my brain, and I have no doubt that Pico Iyer was right to write that "the best trips, like the best love affairs, never really end."
