---
layout: subcategory
category: sophomore
title: Sophomore
---

###Engineering for Social Justice###

When I studied abroad in Bangalore, we talked to more than 20 activists that came from all different fields...except one: engineering. We spoke to botanists, teachers, neuro-scientist, farmers, writers, actors and actresses that found on a way to weave in social justice activism into their work, and not a single engineer talked to us on the trip. It's not just the activists but also my peers. I was the only engineering student on the trip and it is true that few (or none) of my peers interested in social justice issues major in engineering. Even if the sample size of my mental informal survey was small, this observation made me uncomfortable. This seminar was the perfect place to for me to try to see how engineering can be a part of social justice movements. One current and one former UW civil engineering students led the class, and they were such a wealth of knowledge. Our readings and discussions covered topics such as: engineering nature, nature of engineering, power, politics, profit, privilege, politics of artifacts and engineered products, cultural hegemony in engineering, and much more. On one of the last days of class, Linn Gould came to talk to us about her transition from engineering to social justice work. She started as a geologist and then worked for various engineering companies and hit the glass ceiling. After her masters in Public Health, she started an non profit organization in 2004 called **[Just Health Action](http://justhealthaction.org)** that promotes critical health literacy and health equity through workshops. They also write reports that assess environmental health impacts: [Duwamish Valley Cumulative Health Impacts Analysis: Seattle, Washington](http://justhealthaction.org/wp-cotent-uploads/2013/03/Duwamish-Valley-Cumulative-Health-Impact-Analysis-Seattle-WA.pdf). Although I didn't write papers for this class, it was a great opportunity for me to continue my thoughts from the study abroad and talk to peers in the engineering field about ways to be more thoughtful engineers.

###Introduction to the Bioengineering Core###

After five quarters at the UW, I finally got to take my first set of Bioengineering classes! The classes I took were BIOEN 315, 316, and 317. BIOEN 315 was biology and biochemistry for bioengineers. We focused on biochemical reactions in the body that occur in healthy bodies as well as those that contribute to disease. We also had a large unit on protein structure in theory and got to study real proteins and their structures on Chimera. To tie all of the material that we learned together, we also studied more in depth about diabetes type I and type II and the structural properties of insulin as well as the ways to manipulate the structure to fit diabetic patient's needs. BIOEN 316 and 317  was the other end of the spectrum of bioengineering. They were a set of lecture and lab classes about signals processing (Fourier transformation, circuit design, analog and digital filters, etc...) and sensors. Using the materials learned in these two classes, we built a pulse oximeter from scratch at the end of the quarter! The learning curve was steep, because these classes covered not only great breadth but depth of material compared to the classes I had taken so far, but they were well worth the wait because the material we covered were subjects that I dreamed of learning about when I started college. Also, my professors, Dr. Ratner, Dr. Daggett, and Dr. Neils, were engaging and really cared about making the best learning environment for all of us. I can't wait to see what junior core will be like!